---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: E4 Progress in Programming Report
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2020-05-10
labels:
  - E4 
  - Programming Progress Report
  - Improvment
---
1. My programming skills have greatly improved.

I strongly agree with this statement. I have coded before in high school but it was very basic and we only learned a little bit about javascript and html. I think so far into class I have learned so much about code that I never knew before and my programming skills have greatly improved because of it. In the past, I would just follow an outline and wouldn’t know what was used for what but now I can at least understand what does what and what I should use (half the time) to carry out a task. 

2. I am enthusiastic about programming.

I agree with this statement. Even though programming is a lot of work and can be very frustrating from time to time I do enjoy it when I get things working. I think what’s really cool about programming is that all the effort you put into it is creating something that didn’t exist before. 

3. I can do the WODs without looking at the screencast solutions. 

I agree and disagree with this statement. Doing the WOD without looking at the screencast solutions vary based on what WOD it is. The WODs in the beginning were fairly easier to do without the screencast solutions the first time around. However, if I practice it a few times over and over I can do the WOD without looking at the screencast solutions. 

4. The labs have helped me to learn and I am able to complete them with confidence. 

I agree with this statement. The labs have helped me to learn and process things since we go through them together as a class step by step. The instructions are usually very clear and if you can’t figure out why something isn’t working there's always sources to help. I wouldn’t be able to do some of the WODs without first going through the lab because in the lab is where we learn things hands on and we get a better understanding of what we’re doing and why we get the results that we get.

5. I feel ready to move to the next stage of complexity in programming (building small web applications). 

I agree with this statement to an extent. I feel like I have all of the information and resources to move on to the next stage to building small web applications but it still is nerve racking to create a web page all on your own from scratch. However, most of the things we will need to create the web applications have been shown bit by bit through labs and WODs so it is a good time to start the next stage. 

6. I think the class can be improved to help my learning. 

I agree with this statement as well. I think there is always room for improvement no matter what it pertains to. I am more of a visual learner so the labs are helpful in that sense since everything we do is shown on the screen so I can follow along. However, I am also a slow learner so I have to see step by step where everything goes and why and sometimes we don’t have enough time to do this in class. 

7. There are things that work really well in my learning in this class.

Things that I think helped me a lot with learning in this class are going through the labs in class, doing the WODs (even though they require a lot of time), and getting help outside of class during office hours. I think what really helped me is going step by step for everything so I fully grasp all the information being given to me so I can better perform on my own in the future. 
